you
[Music]
September the 8th 1966
Gene Roddenberry's galaxy spanning Star
Trek saga damnit little NBC and how
transformed science fiction television
from tired stereotypes into a shan'er
rich with multi-layered drama article ii
diverse characters and real-world issues
while it wasn't a big hit at the time
Star Trek eventually developed a loyal
following that continued through an
animated series the long-running film
franchise and other live-action
television series from the late 1980s
onward the show sometimes hired iconic
science fiction writers including
Richard Matheson Robert Bloch Theodore
sturgeon and Harlan Ellison who want a
Hugo Award for his episode City on the
edge of forever while Isaac Asimov
developed a friendship with Roddenberry
to commemorate this momentous occasion
let's look back at the groundbreaking
series during which the crew of the
enterprise donate on far-flung
peacekeeping and rescue missions
answered distress calls on distant
planets and faced confrontations with
warm and daring airlines
you're watching how they changed and
even though there has been plenty
written about this iconic show there
always seems to be something new to
learn Captain Pike preceded Captain Kirk
in aired pilot the cage which finally
debuted on home video in 1986 featured
an almost entirely different cast and
crew with mr. spork being the lone hold
over on the bridge when the classic team
appeared in the first official episode
Jeffrey hunter The Searchers starred as
Captain Christopher Pike who gets
abducted by telepathic
aliens for psychological experiments
involving a human woman the original
pilot was actually pretty good but the
cast lacked the same warmth and
diversity that would ultimately emerge
Mysterio rejected the original pilot
allegedly for being too cerebral and
lacking in action greater Gene
Roddenberry's sought to make another at
hunter chose to move on to other
projects in the end it was good that
embassy rejected the original pilot
because the Shia was very bumpered into
something much stronger Pike returned
for two episodes and the movie report
several upsets in the producers of Star
Trek creates a two-part episode called
the menagerie that utilized much of the
original pilot mr. Spock was taking an
out battle scarred and disfigured
Captain Pike back to the planet Alice
for which was off-limits to Federation
vessels for known reasons and he would
not reveal why until he seized control
of the enterprise and face the
court-martial
it was a clever and cost-effective way
to reuse the an ad material and craft a
new storyline in JJ Abrams is 2009 movie
report writers Roberto Orci and Alex
Kurtzman brought back Pike played by
Bruce Greenwood his Kirk's superior
officer and mentor on his first mission
in space it was a nice nod to the
original series the original number 1
was a woman in the original Paula gin
voluntarist girlfriend and future wife
Michelle Barrett with Kirk's first
officer who still had to deal with the
captain's his presumptions about women
on the bridge test audiences allegedly
did not like a character because they
thought she was too pushy and try to be
like the man but modern audiences would
not think of any of those things when
Pike was kidnapped she led a mission to
the planet to rescue him and proved
herself to be a capable leader but this
was about a year before the women's
liberation movement began gasps sitting
in America the Star Trek universe
finally got its first female captain
with Captain Kathryn Janeway
in Star Trek Voyager which aired between
five and 2001 module pilot Roddenberry
returned in many episodes of the
original series to play nurse Christine
Chappell who had unrequited romantic
feelings towards mr. Spock she played a
more nurturing character but did not
have the command duties of her original
role following that Barret Roddenberry
who has been called the first lady of
Star Trek had rules in every Star Trek
series playing West Chapel Luton and ham
res and other characters and Star Trek
the animated series dr. no Troy and the
voice of the enterprise computer the
Star Trek The Next Generation and the
computer voices on Deep Space nine
Voyager and Enterprise she also appeared
as dr. chapel in Star Trek the motion
picture and as a commander chapel in
Star Trek for the watch home though she
provided voice work to other films
including their 2009 reboot and various
video games after her husband died in
1991 Barret Roddenberry served as
executive producer into series he had
created Earth final conflict in 1997
1999 and Andromeda 2000 and 2005 she
passed away in 2008 but not before
recording you guessed it
mr. fleet computer voice for JJ Abrams
is 2009 movie reboot Kirk had a dark
past before Star Trek prior to venturing
into space and encountering all sorts of
intergalactic nemesis like the Romulans
Klingons and the super human can William
Shatner appeared in a variety of talk
film and television projects in Roger
Corman's underrated film the intruder he
played a racist agitator in a southern
town who pushes things too far in
Incubus a film shot entirely in the
Esperanto language he played a
good-hearted man with whom as syllables
falls in love and green her sister and
setting about retribution his appearance
as a man
a gremlin on the wing of a plane in
episode of The Twilight Zone
he's famous but he also made a turn in
possibly the best horror TV episode ever
the Grim Reaper on thriller as a man who
warns his aunt that the previous owners
of the portrait of the tide healer
character which he now owns have died
violently Spock has greenish skin but
was originally meant to be read while
Spock skin has a slight green tint to it
the original plan was to give him red
skin but back in the mid to late 1960s a
majority of households still had
black-and-white televisions so his skin
would appear very dark when viewed on
their sacs in one early episode however
Spock looked really clean someone messed
up the color palette that day one
wonders if the chance to see the shows
in color during their subsequent
syndicated runs help lure new viewers
and get excited longtime fans the chance
to rewatch the episodes in the way they
had never seen them before William
Hartnell Leo not anymore
l got tinnitus onset after an explosion
on the site of one of the Star Trek
firms both stars developed tinnitus and
ringing or buzzing in the ears that is
often permanent and can be debilitating
in for some sufferers after seeking help
all across the country shall not learn
to deal with it through habituation by
wearing hearing device for time that
produced white noise to help him cope he
has helped others as well and talked
people down from suicide Shatner told in
the interview for the Aquarian a famous
musician got a hold of McCord I didn't
know him he knew her got it because I
was never a spokesman for tinnitus at
one period and I talked him down and
encouraged him to do habitation you know
why it sound because when I was asked
when I first caught it how it affected
my life from 1 to 10 it was
nine and a half now I don't hear it
except when you and I are talking about
it
a lot of Star Trek technology became
reality if one looks at the original
series much of the technology being used
ultimately
became real the communicators are like
modern cell phones the earpiece is worn
by hula and Spock are basically
Bluetooth devices the universal
translators are echoed by the use of
modern voice recognition software
tricorders have become the logger to
peace yes the portable biological lab
used by NASA and the use of interactive
video screens telepresence is akin to
current video conferencing while
Enterprise crew members recorded audio
and hard cases cassette tapes they
looked like soon to be more than floppy
disks whoosh and how outdated in our
digital era there have been more than
125 Star Trek related video games since
more than 125 video games based on who
inspired where the Star Trek series have
been created beginning with a text game
written in basic in 1971 in stand-up
arcade game in 1972 and later early
computing gaming systems like the
Commodore 64 and Atari 5200 through to
modern ps3 and xbox 360 consoles many of
the titles are quite colorful like the
kabocha alternative clinging on a gird
Delta Vega meltdown on the ice planet it
would probably be hard to collect them
all at this point or to be able to play
them unless one owns all the various
video game platforms required but
perhaps someone does like comment and
subscribe for more hope you enjoyed our
reviews and you can suggest a theme for
next in the comments
take care friends